p12: Loosely speaking, `puts` prints a string of text to the console and appends a newline (unless the string already ends with one).


p13: When printing an array, for example, `p` outputs it using array literal notation, whereas `puts` simply prints each element of the array on a line by itself.


p13: `irb` does have a number of other important features, however, including subshells (type "irb" at the prompt to start a subshell) and configurability.


P21: # Note that the + operator on arrays does concatenation but that the - operator performs a set difference operation


P26: There is no way to embed a comment in the middle of a line of code.


P51: This kind of literal is borrowed from Unix shell syntax and is historically known as a `here document`. (Because the document is right here in the source code rather than in an external file.)


P52: In fact, after reading the content of a here document, the Ruby interpreter goes back to the line it was on and continues parsing it.


P52: If the here document begins with `<<`, then the delimiter must start at the beginning of the line. If the literal begins with `<<-` instead, then the delimiter may have whitespace in front of it. The new line at the beginning of a here document is not part of the literal, but the newline at the end of the document is, Therefore, every here document ends with a line terminator, except for an empty here document, which is the same as "":


delimiter中文翻译是：定界符、分隔符。


遇到一个问题：
```
print "hello\r"
```
输出什么都没有


P52: This is the same as using single identifier, except that it allows spaces within the delimiter.


注意理解比较的是`single identifier`，而不是`single quotes delimiter`.


P27: Documentation comments ... They are usually written as multiline comments where each line begins with `#`, but they can also be written as embedded documents that start `=begin rdoc`


P29: ... Unicode ... codepoint ...


P31: The best practice it to treat these keywords as reserved.


P33: ... Ruby 1.9 .. If the first nonspace character on a line is a period, then the line is considered a continuation line. ...


P33: Ruby's grammar allows the parentheses around method invocations to be ommitted in certain circumstances. This allows Ruby methods to be used as if they were *statements*. which is an important part of Ruby's elegance.


P34: ... Expressions can be combined with Ruby's keywords to create `statements`.


P36: `__END__` ... `IO::DATA`


P38: UTF-8 encoded files identify their encoding if the first three bytes of the file are `0xEF 0xBB 0xBF`. These bytes are known as the BOM or `Byte Order Mark` and are optional in UTF-8-encoded files.


P38: `source encoding` ... `default external encoding`


P38: Ruby1.9: `-E` `--encoding` ... `-K`


P39: Ruby is a scripting language. This means that Ruby programs are simply lists, or scripts of statements to be executed.


P39: Another difference between Ruby and compiled language ahs to do wtih module, class, and method definitions. In compiled languages, these are syntactic structures that are processed by the compiler. In Ruby, they are statements like any other.


P40: `ENS` statements ... `at_exit` function ... shutdown hook code.
